Updating membership_policy to inc removal of reviewer/approvers/chairs (#365)
kubevirt/community: membership_policy.md

  * Nominated by an approver
    * With no objections from other approvers
    * Done through PR to update the top-level OWNERS file
    

> In exceptional circumstances, such as when a repo is left without suffcient approvers, the project maintainers can pass a majority vote to add approvers that do not fulfil the requirements.

Reviewer: IMO the bar is low enough as it is. Why should we accept exceptions?
Perhaps we can focus on providing SIG approvers the ability to nominate repo subproject approvers, that sounds a bit more loose.

Reviewer: Well, if a project has no active maintainers, the "council" should either find one or archive the project.
I am more concerned that this 1% of the cases which you aim here will become in some projects a common norm.
But fine, I understand better from where you come with this.

> In exceptional circumstances, such as when a repo is left without suffcient approvers, the project maintainers can pass a majority vote to add approvers that do not fulfil the requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In exceptional circumstances, such as when a repo is left without sufficient approvers, the project maintainers can pass a majority vote to add approvers that do not fulfill the requirements.
```

go through the org membership process again after re-familiarizing themselves
with the current state.

> #### How inactivity for members is measured

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### How members inactivity is measured
```

before being able to contribute effectively.

### Inactive Reviewers/Approvers/Chairs/Leads

Reviewers, approvers, chairs and leads are pillars of the community and are fundamental to maintaining the momentum of the project.
Considering that they have elevated permissions and responsibilities in the project, their active engagement with the project is greatly appreciated.

If a reviewer and/or approver steps down from their position in a repository or the project entirely, we trust that they will notify the community and create PRs removing them as reviewers/approvers in the applicable repositories.
This will help others identify and grow into the role so as to not leave a gap for any length of time. 
It will also ensure they are not erroneously tagged to review/approve PRs, which is both an inconvenience to them but also an obstacle for the project.

When a SIG or WG Chair or Subproject Lead needs to step down from their position, it is expected that they work with the SIG/Subproject/WG to identify and mentor a willing candidate to grow into the role.
They should then open a PR to replace them in [sigs.yaml], and move themselves to emeritus status (if applicable).

> A reviewer/approver/chair/lead may also be demoted or removed from their role if they are inactive in their area for 6 months or more.

Reviewer 3: I think we also should think about the case of a "vanishing" person. In that case there's no candidate, so the impacted group or the community should select one.

This could happen maybe by approaching the candidate - either by maintainers of the affected group or the project maintainers in the worst case - and then suggesting them to the group or community in a PR against the `sigs.yaml`. A quorum of people with authority should then be enough to accept the suggestion.

Reviewer 4: +1.
In general I like the idea of having an "escape hatch" to such defined policies. After all, it makes sense that due to circumstances sometimes someone will vanish with no notice and won't have the time to fulfill this process or even communicate the situation. In such a scenario, I would say that if the majority of SIG chairs vote to remove them because they know they won't be active for the near future, there is no need to wait for 6 months just to get the "proof" of inactiveness.

No policy can replace common sense 100%, but IMO is mostly there to serve as a general guideline.

Reviewer 3: @aburdenthehand my suggestion could also be handled in a follow up, I will not block on this.

Author: Thanks for the feedback folks, and sorry about the delay. 
I've added #L121 to cover a vote for approvers who don't meet the requirements, and added to this line. I think this covers the suggested cases but let me know if they do not. 
+1 that common sense should prevail, but always good to cover these cases.

those members would need to re-familiarize themselves with the current state
before being able to contribute effectively.

### Inactive Reviewers/Approvers/Chairs/Leads

Reviewers, approvers, chairs and leads are pillars of the community and are fundamental to maintaining the momentum of the project.
Considering that they have elevated permissions and responsibilities in the project, their active engagement with the project is greatly appreciated.

> If a reviewer and/or approver steps down from their position in a repository or the project entirely, we trust that they will notify the community and create PRs removing them as reviewers/approvers in the applicable repositories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a reviewer and/or approver steps down from their position in a repository or the project entirely, we trust that they will notify the community and create PRs to remove themselves as reviewers/approvers in the applicable repositories.
```

This will help others identify and grow into the role so as to not leave a gap for any length of time. 
It will also ensure they are not erroneously tagged to review/approve PRs, which is both an inconvenience to them but also an obstacle for the project.

When a SIG or WG Chair or Subproject Lead needs to step down from their position, it is expected that they work with the SIG/Subproject/WG to identify and mentor a willing candidate to grow into the role.
They should then open a PR to replace them in [sigs.yaml], and move themselves to emeritus status (if applicable).

A reviewer/approver/chair/lead may also be demoted or removed from their role if they are inactive in their area for 6 months or more, or if there is a majority vote by the remaining approvers/chairs/leads or maintainers depending on the situation (for instance, if a SIG chair abruptly leaves one remaining SIG chair).

#### How inactivity for Reviewers/Approvers/Chairs/Leads is measured

> The KubeVirt community repo has a [project activity tool](https://github.com/kubevirt/community/blob/main/generators/cmd/contributions/README.md) that can be used to demonstrate that a reviewer/approver has been inactive for 6 months.

Reviewer 2: @dhiller don't we have a periodic execution of this, with public-facing output? I think a link to such output would be more valuable than a link to the readme of the tool.

Reviewer 3: > @dhiller don't we have a periodic execution of this, with public-facing output? I think a link to such output would be more valuable than a link to the readme of the tool.

No, we don't. My first question would be how we would want to present this though.

I was trying to tackle this in a different way: by automating the removal of accounts who don't show activity - this way the process is democratized. However the PR didn't get much feedback, not sure why that is.

https://github.com/kubevirt/project-infra/pull/3832

Reviewer 3: ^^ @jean-edouard
